Copyright © 2023 The Regents of the University of Colorado, a body corporate.
All Rights Reserved. Contact charles.wade@colorado.edu with any questions or
comments.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Program is the property of The Regents of the University of Colorado, a
body corporate, (CU or the University). CU hereby reserves all rights in the
Program (defined below) not expressly granted herein. In addition to being
subject to copyright protection, the use of this Program is covered by a
pending patent application. Any use, copy, publication, distribution, display,
modification, or transmission of the Program in whole or in part in any form or
by any means outside the rights expressly granted in this Notice without the
written permission of CU is strictly prohibited.

The Program consists of the computer software code known as “Systems and
Processes for Volumetric Multi-Material 3D Models” also known as “OpenVCAD”,
“VCAD” or similar, and the associated documentation, for making volumetric
multi-material 3D models.

You (the user or recipient of the Program) desire to acquire a license to use
the Program in accordance with the terms set forth in this Notice.

BY DOWNLOADING AND USING THIS PROGRAM, IN WHOLE OR IN PART, YOU AGREE TO COMPLY
WITH AND BE BOUND BY ALL TERMS IN THIS NOTICE. THE TERMS OF THIS NOTICE ALSO
APPLY TO ALL YOUR CONTRIBUTIONS (DEFINED BELOW). IN RETURN, THE UNIVERSITY
AGREES THAT IT SHALL NOT USE YOUR CONTRIBUTIONS IN A WAY THAT THE UNIVERSITY
BELIEVES IS CONTRARY TO THE PUBLIC BENEFIT. IF YOU DO NOT WISH TO COMPLY WITH
OR BE BOUND WITH THE TERMS OF THIS NOTICE YOU MUST IMMEDIATELY CEASE USE OF THE
PROGRAM AND DELETE ALL COPIES OR MODIFICATIONS OF THE PROGRAM COMPLETELY. If
You agree to these terms on behalf of an organization, You hereby represent to
CU that You are authorized to accept these terms on its behalf.

1.	Definitions:
    “Contributor” means the copyright owner or legal entity authorized by the
    copyright owner of any Contribution (defined below) submitted to the
    University. For legal entities, the entity making a Contribution and all
    other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common control
    with that entity are considered to be a single Contributor. For the
    purposes of this definition, "control" means (i) the power, direct or
    indirect, to cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by
    contract or otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of
    the outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

    “Contribution” means any original work of authorship, including any
    modifications or additions to the Program, that is intentionally submitted
    to the University for inclusion in, or documentation of, the Program. For
    the purposes of this definition, “submitted” means any form of electronic,
    verbal, or written communication sent to the University or its
    representatives, including but not limited to communication on electronic
    mailing lists, source code control systems, and issue tracking systems that
    are managed by, or on behalf of, the University for the purpose of
    discussing and improving the Program, but excluding communication that is
    conspicuously marked and designated in writing as “Not a Contribution”.

2.	Grant of Copyright License for the Program: Subject to the terms and
    conditions of this Notice, CU hereby grants to You a non-exclusive license
    under CU’s copyright in the Program to use the Program for Your own
    noncommercial academic or personal research.

3.	Grant of Patent License for the Program: Subject to the terms and
    conditions of this Notice, CU hereby grants to You a non-exclusive license
    under CU’s patent rights covering the Program to make, have made, use
    import, and otherwise transfer the Program to Your collaborators for Your
    own noncommercial academic or personal research, provided that the
    foregoing patent license is granted under only those patent claims that are
    necessarily infringed by Your Contribution(s). . If You institute patent
    litigation against any third party (including a cross-claim or counterclaim
    in a lawsuit) alleging that the Program or a Contribution incorporated
    within the Program constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement,
    then any patent licenses granted to You under this Notice for the Program
    and Your Contributions shall terminate as of the date such litigation is
    filed.

4.	Terms of Use of the Program. You may only use this Program for Your
    noncommercial research and development efforts on behalf of a nonprofit
    organization, or noncommercial research within and on behalf of a nonprofit
    organization, or your own personal noncommercial activities. You may make
    derivative works or modifications to the Programs, but only for Your
    noncommercial research and development efforts within or on behalf of a
    nonprofit academic or research organization, or your own personal
    noncommercial activities. You may not remove or modify the copyright,
    trademarks, or other proprietary notices and disclaimers as they appear in
    the Program. You may distribute or publish the Program or any derivative
    works of the Program made by You, provided that You must limit any further
    use of the Program or derivative works to only noncommercial research and
    development on behalf of a nonprofit academic or research organization, or
    personal noncommercial activities. You shall not use the Program, any
    portion thereof or any derivative works of the Program for any commercial
    purposes. Commercial purposes for the purpose of this Notice include, but
    are not limited to, providing services for others, distributing larger
    programs that contain this Program and exchanging this Program or
    derivative works of the Program in any manner for any form of compensation,
    in-kind or otherwise. To the extent that You publish any results from the
    use of the Program or derivative works of the Program, You must properly
    acknowledge the Program as developed by the Matter Assembly Computation Lab
    at the University of Colorado Boulder, and cite the published reference(s).
    The recommended reference citation(s) for the Program is/are provided in
    the Program documentation. This Notice is limited to the rights of The
    Regents of the University of Colorado in the Program and does not include
    any rights to other intellectual property. Your rights under this Notice
    will terminate immediately and automatically if You fail to comply with any
    of the terms and conditions of this Notice. Immediately upon termination,
    You must cease all use of the Program and any derivative works of the
    Program, destroy all copies of the Program and any derivative works of the
    Program in Your possession or control. Termination of this Notice will not
    limit any of CU’s rights or remedies at law or in equity. You acknowledge
    that the Program is subject to U.S. export jurisdiction. You agree to
    comply with all applicable international and national laws that apply to
    the Program, including the U.S. Export Administration Regulations, as well
    as end-user, end-use, and destination restrictions issued by U.S. and other
    governments. The Program is distributed “as-is”, and CU has no obligation
    to provide any maintenance, updates, additional documentation or services.

5.	Grant of Copyright License to Your Contributions. By submitting
    Contributions to CU, Contributor grants to CU a non-exclusive, royalty free
    license under Contributor’s copyright in the Contribution to use, reproduce,
    modify, distribute, transmit, create derivative works from, publicly display
    and publicly perform the Contribution for any purpose. CU may, in its sole
    discretion, include your Contribution when licensing the Program under these or
    any other license terms. To the extent that CU distributes or publishes a
    Contribution or incorporates the Contribution into the Program, CU agrees to
    give appropriate attribution to Contributor as prescribed by Contributor.
    However, nothing in this Notice obligates CU to incorporate any Contribution
    into the Program, and CU may elect not to publish or distribute a Contribution
    in its sole discretion.

6.	With respect to any of Your Contributions, You represent that you are legally
    entitled to grant the above license to such Contributions. You represent that
    each of Your Contributions is Your original creation (see Section 8 for
    submissions on behalf of others). You represent that Your Contribution
    submissions include complete details of any third-party license or other
    restriction (including, but not limited to, related patents and trademarks)
    of which You are aware and which are associated with any part of Your
    Contributions. You represent and warrant that You will not submit any
    materials to University that You know or believe to have components that
    are malicious or harmful. You represent that, with regard to all
    representations in Section 6, You will perform a reasonable amount of due
    diligence in order to be properly informed of third party licenses,
    infringing materials or harmful content associated with any part of Your
    Contribution.

7.	You are not expected to provide support for Your Contributions, except to
    the extent You desire to provide support. You may provide support for free,
    for a fee, or not at all.

8.	Should You wish to submit work that is not Your original creation, You may
    submit it to the University separately from any Contribution, identifying
    the complete details of its source and of any license or other restriction
    (including, but not limited to, related patents, trademarks, and license
    agreements) of which You are personally aware, and conspicuously marking
    the work as "Submitted on behalf of a third-party: [named here]".

9.	You agree to notify the University of any facts or circumstances of which
    You become aware that would make Your representations inaccurate in any
    respect. You agree to notify the University of any administrative or court
    proceeding that involve Your Contributions.

10.	CU DISCLAIMS, ANY AND ALL OTHER WARRANTIES, CONDITIONS, OR REPRESENTATIONS
    (EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, ORAL OR WRITTEN), WITH RESPECT TO THE PROGRAM OR ANY
    PART THEREOF, INCLUDING ANY AND ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF
    TITLE, NONINFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, OR FITNESS OR SUITABILITY FOR ANY
    PURPOSE (WHETHER OR NOT CU KNOWS, HAS REASON TO KNOW, HAS BEEN ADVISED, OR
    IS OTHERWISE IN FACT AWARE OF ANY SUCH PURPOSE), WHETHER ALLEGED TO ARISE
    BY LAW, BY REASON OF CUSTOM OR USAGE IN THE TRADE, OR BY COURSE OF DEALING.

11.	You are solely responsible for any and all losses or expenses arising from
    or otherwise in respect of Your use of the Program or derivative works of
    the Program.

12.	You agree that this Notice, will be governed and construed in accordance
    with the laws of the State of Colorado.

13.	You acknowledge and agree that nothing contained in this Notice shall be
    construed as an express or implied waiver of any immunity of the
    University, either sovereign or governmental under the Colorado
    Governmental Immunity Act.

14.	You agree that Your Contribution shall not contain any item(s) that are
    either export-controlled under the International Traffic in Arms
    Regulations, or that appear on the Commerce Control List (except as
    EAR99) of the Export Administration Regulations.

15.	The invalidity, illegality, or unenforceability of any one or more phrases,
    sentences, clauses, or sections in this Notice does not affect the remaining
    portions of this Notice.